Privacy is necessary for an open society in the electronic age. Privacy is not
secrecy. A private matter is something one doesn't want the whole world to
know, but a secret matter is something one doesn't want anybody to
know. Privacy is the power to selectively reveal oneself to the world.

If two parties have some sort of dealings, then each has a memory of their
interaction. Each party can speak about their own memory of this; how could
anyone prevent it? One could pass laws against it, but the freedom of speech,
even more than privacy, is fundamental to an open society; we seek not to
restrict any speech at all. If many parties speak together in the same forum,
each can speak to all the others and aggregate together knowledge about
individuals and other parties. The power of electronic communications has
enabled such group speech, and it will not go away merely because we might want
it to.

Since we desire privacy, we must ensure that each party to a transaction have
knowledge only of that which is directly necessary for that transaction. Since
any information can be spoken of, we must ensure that we reveal as little as
possible. In most cases personal identity is not salient. When I purchase a
magazine at a store and hand cash to the clerk, there is no need to know who I
am. When I ask my electronic mail provider to send and receive messages, my
provider need not know to whom I am speaking or what I am saying or what others
are saying to me; my provider only need know how to get the message there and
how much I owe them in fees. When my identity is revealed by the underlying
mechanism of the transaction, I have no privacy. I cannot here selectively
reveal myself; I must always reveal myself.

Therefore, privacy in an open society requires anonymous transaction
systems. Until now, cash has been the primary such system. An anonymous
transaction system is not a secret transaction system. An anonymous system
empowers individuals to reveal their identity when desired and only when
desired; this is the essence of privacy.

Privacy in an open society also requires cryptography. If I say something, I
want it heard only by those for whom I intend it. If the content of my speech
is available to the world, I have no privacy. To encrypt is to indicate the
desire for privacy, and to encrypt with weak cryptography is to indicate not
too much desire for privacy. Furthermore, to reveal one's identity with
assurance when the default is anonymity requires the cryptographic signature.

We cannot expect governments, corporations, or other large, faceless
organizations to grant us privacy out of their beneficence. It is to their
advantage to speak of us, and we should expect that they will speak. To try to
prevent their speech is to fight against the realities of
information. Information does not just want to be free, it longs to be
free. Information expands to fill the available storage space. Information is
Rumor's younger, stronger cousin; Information is fleeter of foot, has more
eyes, knows more, and understands less than Rumor.

We must defend our own privacy if we expect to have any. We must come together
and create systems which allow anonymous transactions to take place. People
have been defending their own privacy for centuries with whispers, darkness,
envelopes, closed doors, secret handshakes, and couriers. The technologies of
the past did not allow for strong privacy, but electronic technologies do.

We the Cypherpunks are dedicated to building anonymous systems. We are
defending our privacy with cryptography, with anonymous mail forwarding
systems, with digital signatures, and with electronic money.

Cypherpunks write code. We know that someone has to write software to defend
privacy, and since we can't get privacy unless we all do, we're going to write
it. We publish our code so that our fellow Cypherpunks may practice and play
with it. Our code is free for all to use, worldwide. We don't much care if you
don't approve of the software we write. We know that software can't be
destroyed and that a widely dispersed system can't be shut down.

Cypherpunks deplore regulations on cryptography, for encryption is
fundamentally a private act. The act of encryption, in fact, removes
information from the public realm. Even laws against cryptography reach only so
far as a nation's border and the arm of its violence. Cryptography will
ineluctably spread over the whole globe, and with it the anonymous transactions
systems that it makes possible.

For privacy to be widespread it must be part of a social contract. People must
come and together deploy these systems for the common good. Privacy only
extends so far as the cooperation of one's fellows in society. We the
Cypherpunks seek your questions and your concerns and hope we may engage you so
that we do not deceive ourselves. We will not, however, be moved out of our
course because some may disagree with our goals.

The Cypherpunks are actively engaged in making the networks safer for
privacy. Let us proceed together apace.

Onward.

Eric Hughes <hughes@soda.berkeley.edu>
9 March 1993
